#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : Concepts
==================================

Created by andre.romcke@ez.no, last modified by
sarah.haim-lubczanski@ez.no on Mar 02, 2015

WORK IN PROGRESS

Reference for eZ Publish Platforms domain-specific language (DSL),
meaning this page is describing concepts further used in specification
(BDD), user stories and the rest of the documentation.

Overall
~~~~~~~

 

Concept:

Description:

Replaces "Legacy" concept:

Legacy

Refers to eZ Publish part of eZ Publish Platform which is based on eZ
Publish 4.x, sub topics: "Legacy Stack" and "Legacy StorageEngine"

 

Platform

Refers to part introduced in 5.0 together with Legacy to together form
eZ Publish Platform, will become eZ Platform, aka "6.x".

 

 

System
~~~~~~

 

Refers to concepts referring to specific ways to setup the system as a
whole. 

 

Concept:

Description:

Replaces "Legacy" concept:

Clustering

`Clustering <Clustering_25985700.html>`__ refers to how you can setup eZ
Publish Platform to scale up to several servers (typically scaling up
web servers).

 

Repository
~~~~~~~~~~

Refers to the Content Repository, where you place your content and all
it's related domains, like Content Type.

 

Concept:

Description:

Replaces "Legacy" concept:

Content (Object)

 

(Content) Object

ContentType (Object)

 

(Content) Class

Location (Object)

 

Node

User (Object)

 

 

Web
~~~

Refers to web development, specifically concepts provided by and
extending the Symfony development framework.

Concept:

Description:

Replaces "Legacy" concept:

Contextual Override

Refers to `rules based overriding of Content / Location
templates <View-provider-configuration_2720462.html>`__, and advance
`rule-based overrides of Content/Location
controllers <https://doc.ez.no/display/EZP6/How+to+use+a+custom+controller+to+display+a+content+or+location>`__.

Override[.ini]

Override

Refers to Symfony `Bundle
override <http://symfony.com/doc/current/cookbook/bundles/override.html>`__,
and `Bundle
inheritance <http://symfony.com/doc/current/cookbook/bundles/inheritance.html>`__.

Placement/Design override

Sessions

`Sessions <Session_8323282.html>`__ are standard web based sessions
keeping track of for instance who is logged in.

 

Anonymous Session

A ``Session`` representing a ``A``\ ``nonymous User,`` typically started
on user actions, which do not require being logged in, like adding
products to a basket.

 

Anonymous User

A ``User`` in the Repository configured to represent a *non* logged-in
``User``.

 

 

| 

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:13
