#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `Features <Features_12781009.html>`__
#. `Introduction for eZ Publish
   developers <Introduction-for-eZ-Publish-developers_11403947.html>`__
#. `Intro for eZ Publish 4.x/3.x developers <2720567.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : 4.x feature comparison
================================================

Created and last modified by andre.romcke@ez.no on May 15, 2014

CONTENT OF THIS PAGE IS UNDER REVIEW

This page represents a comparison between **Legacy Stack\ * ***\ (aka
"*4.x*\ " stack) vs **Platform Stack** (previously referred to as
"*Symfony*\ ", "*new*\ " or "*6.x*\ " stack); it will be updated as new
features are added. Note: Features mentioned on the black list are still
available in 5.x, but via legacy kernel so you will need to use "pure
legacy" or a mixed setup using "legacy fallbacks". 

For a list of Symfony features supported out of the box, see
`here <Symfony-feature-status_15761752.html>`__.

For additional related topics see \ `Legacy code and
features <Legacy-code-and-features_8323433.html>`__ and \ `Intro for eZ
Publish 4.x/3.x developers <2720567.html>`__.

Known existing integration (**white **\ list):
----------------------------------------------

5.x Feature

4.x Feature

Note/Limitation

**Content Model**

**
**

5.x aimed at not adding \ **any** features in the content/data model
that would lead to backwards compatibility breaks, new features will
instead be introduced when we reach "eZ Platform 1.0" and beyond.

Content\*

(Content) Object

 

(Content) Relation

(Object) Relation

 

Field

(Object) Attribute

Missing FieldTypes will cause eZ Publish to return exception, this can
be avoided by either `implementing the
FieldType <eZ-Publish-5-Field-Type-Tutorial_19890704.html>`__ or
configuring it as "`NullType <The-Null-FieldType_12781027.html>`__\ " if
you want to just quickly ignore it for now in your front end.

Field Type

Data Type

See `FieldTypes reference <FieldTypes-reference_10158198.html>`__ for
list of supported types, known unsupported FieldTypes are mentioned in
`Known issues <eZ-Publish-5.x-Releases_12781017.html>`__

Locations

Node

 

Section

 

 

Content Type

(Content) Class

 

Field Definition

(Content) Class Attribute

 

Field Groups

(Content) Class Attribute Grouping

 

Object State

ObjectState

 

Url Alias

 

 

Url Wildcard

 

 

Language

 

 

User

 

 

User Group

 

Can by design (and intention) only have one location in 5.x when using
Public API UserService

Policy

 

 

Policy Limitation

 

 

Role

 

 

Role Limitation

 

 

Role Assignment

 

Currently not possible to delete specific assignment by id, can be
deleted by Role and User.

 

 

 

**Core**

 

 

`Public API <eZ-Publish-Public-API_1736723.html>`__

n/a

Legacy/4.x does not have a official public API, almost all internal
functions are exposes publicly

`REST API <Getting-started-with-the-REST-API_6292869.html>`__

 

5.1 and higher includes a working read/write REST v2 API, 4.x had a
readonly REST v1 API as of 4.5

Development environment

Development mode

In 5.x this is provided by Symfony, and web debugger is extended by eZ
Publish.

 

 

 

**Web stack**

 

5.x web stack **is** Symfony with several eZ features on top

`Controllers <How-to-use-a-custom-controller-to-display-a-content-or-location_13468497.html>`__

Modules

 

Bundles

Extensions

 

(Twig) Template system

(eZ) Template system

 

`View Provider <Content-and-Location-view-providers_2720034.html>`__

Override system

Restricted to *viewLocation* in 5.0, *viewContent added* in 5.1, for
changing presentation logic.

Controller override

n/a

5.2 added feature for being able to also use override system of View
Provider to also be able to override content controller under your own
conditions to be able to modify behavior.

Theme system

Design system

Planned to use
`LiipThemeBundle <https://github.com/liip/LiipThemeBundle>`__, however
as there is lack of caching and support for assets currently which is
blocking us from using it easily.

HTTP Cache

View- / Static- Cache

For anonymous users with `content aware
caching <HttpCache_6291892.html>`__ since 5.0, also for logged in users
with `context aware caching <Context-aware-HTTP-cache_14712846.html>`__
since 5.2

Site Access

Site access

Custom Url, host, port and combination matching to a specific set of
settings

Site Access Group

n/a

New in 5.x, grouping of related SiteAccesses and common settings for
them, typically used to denote a "Site"

CSRF

eZ FormToken

Provided by Symfony

Render + Query / API use

fetch functions

Combining the render functionality of Symfony with Override system and
API you are able to create reusable views of your content similarly to
how you would use fetch functions in the past, but getting cache and
view / logic separation handled in a native way.

 

 

 

**Data**

 

 

Persistence cache

Cluster- / Class- / ClassAttribute- / var- / "Global"- cache

Introduced in 5.1, multi repository (aka multi-db) setups support added
in 5.2.

IO

Cluster (-ing of files)

Currently uses 4.x cluster system, new and simpler file clustering is
planned for "eZ Platform 1.0" however this is abstracted away by the API
and will only affect how cluster setups are configured.

Multi repository

Multi-db

Supported, however see note on "Persistence cache", as of 5.3 with own
"repository" configuration.

 

 

 

\\\* When referring a specific instance of any of the content model
entries, either "object" or "item" is normal to append depending on
context. In our BDD specifications the domain names have "object"
appended to them forming "Content object(s)", "Location object(s)" and
so on. 

Known missing in Platform stack (**black/grey** list):
------------------------------------------------------

Note: Missing integration doesn't mean the system can not use the
feature in a new installation relying on the new stack, but if it needs,
it shall rely on a fallback to the legacy stack or features available in
Symfony bundles. For instance: a website with a shop system could be
done in twig and rely on legacy only for the fallback for shop parts.

Feature

Note/Limitation

**Core**

 

Rating

User Rating not currently supported by API (the service to deal with
ratings, rating field type already exists), planned to be implemented
later when some convention for FieldType provided API's are established.

Shop

No shop or field(/data) types related to shop currently supported by
API, see `Known issues <eZ-Publish-5.x-Releases_12781017.html>`__. This
is planned for "eZ Platform 1.x" or a release shortly thereafter, it
will most likely use parts of Sylus for this functionality.

eZComment

`ezcomments <https://github.com/ezsystems/ezcomments/>`__ was replaced
in 5.2 with a
`CommentsBundle <https://github.com/ezsystems/CommentsBundle>`__ that
will provide an agnostic system to integrate 3rd party comment services.
Out of the box supporting Disqus and Facebook integration but can via
custom integration also work with other 3rd party systems (example:
service, content model based comments or even ezcomments)

Content Editing

Content editing module is not implemented yet, but custom needs can for
instance be solved with `Public
API <eZ-Publish-Public-API_1736723.html>`__\ +Symfony controllers or use
of `javascript REST
client <https://github.com/ezsystems/ez-js-rest-client>`__ + `REST
API <eZ-Publish-REST-API_6292277.html>`__.

Module Permissions

Controller / Bundle Permissions is not fully integrated with eZ Publish
Repository permission system yet, currently standard Symfony firewall
rules need to be used. Public API however has full support for
permissions and `limitations <Limitations-reference_15204365.html>`__,
and is as of 5.2 known to support legacy most edge cases.

UrlAlias Routing

UrlAlias has the same model as before and hence does not support routing
directly to a bundle:controller:action

Workflow

Planned for future version, see Shop. Simple workflows already possible
by using Symfony evens and Public API "Signals".

Information Collector

Planned as a Form builder UI basically using Symfony Forms + swiftmailer
for mail transport, might reuse content types similarly to how
Information Collector did it. Also see `Form tutorial
[share.ez.no] <http://share.ez.no/learn/ez-publish/create-a-feedback-form-in-ez-publish-5-using-ezforms-bundle>`__,
for how to create forms with Symfony and eZ Publish 5.x.

Package system

Planned to return as a import/export system which uses either API or SPI
directly to replicate some or full amount of content from one repository
to another, preferred format: XML using XML reader/writer.

Menu management

Menu system in Platform will use KnpMenu bundle, a light version is
scheduled for 5.3 while a more deep integration is planned for 5.4.

PDF Export

Not currently planned, could be re-implemented outside of Core

RSS feeds

Currently no API for managing RSS feeds, REST view can be used as basis
of feeds.

Frontend Editing

See "Content Editing".

Be aware that eZ Flow timeline feature is not available in the legacy
admin (only in front end editing), hence not usable on the new stack.

Preview

Comes with 5.3, versions before that uses legacy for preview.

Search

Search API exists, but front end is currently using legacy fallback
(ezfind & ezsearch) and 5.x Search API uses SQL for now while Solr
implementation will be added in 2014.

User module

User login, login handlers and SSO handlers uses Symfony authentication
system as of 5.3, change-password, forgot-password, register, profile
and editing currently uses legacy fallback.

oAuth 2.0

oAuth 1.0 supported in REST v1 in legacy, planned for new stack and REST
v2 for future 5.x version.

Fetch alias

Planned for future version as a way to specify a query with support for
dynamic variables given to it. Currently also possible by means of OOP
extending existing query functionality.

 

 

**Extensions**

(aka Bundles)

eZ Tags

Planned for future 5.x version, still community supported in legacy
stack on 5.x.

eZ SI

eZ SI is purely legacy, not required in Symfony as it support ESI
natively. ez SI is still supported in legacy stack on 5.x.

eZ Content staging

No equivalent yet on the new stack, still supported in legacy stack on
5.x.

eZ Style editor

No equivalent on the new stack, still supported in legacy stack on 5.x
up until 5.1.

eZ Survey

No equivalent yet on the new stack, still supported in legacy stack on
5.x.

\*

For other extensions still supported on legacy, see
`http://doc.ez.no/List-of-eZ-Publish-extensions-and-their-support-options <http://doc.ez.no/List-of-eZ-Publish-extensions-and-their-support-options>`__

 

For additional comparison between 4.x/legacy stack vs 5.x stack, see the
following community provided spreadsheet provided "as is" with no
guarantee on accuracy of
content: \ `https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AgGKn8SQ\_akMdFQ3VU0wMlR3cENxTDZ2dkhUcVN2SWc#gid=0 <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AgGKn8SQ_akMdFQ3VU0wMlR3cENxTDZ2dkhUcVN2SWc#gid=0>`__

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:12
