#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Development & Administration Guides <6291674.html>`__
#. `Features <Features_12781009.html>`__
#. `MVC and Application <MVC-and-Application_2719826.html>`__
#. `Session <Session_8323282.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : Session cleaning files
================================================

Created and last modified by sarah.haim-lubczanski@ez.no on Oct 15, 2014

Icon

This documentation is Debian specific.

Session management with the PHP-handler
---------------------------------------

*View the full page on `Legacy doc of eZ
Publish <https://doc.ez.no/eZ-Publish/Technical-manual/4.x/Reference/Configuration-files/site.ini/Session/SessionTimeout>`__
about Session Timeout*

#. For the php-based session handler, you'll need to set the php.ini
   value of:
   ``session.gc_maxlifetime=<int>``
   to something higher then default value of 1440 (24 minutes) to avoid
   session being garbage collected after 24 minutes. For example set it
   to 259200 for 3 days.
   eZ Publish sets this value to value of SessionTimeout during
   execution, but if there are other applications then eZ Publish 4.4+
   running on the same server, or if system is Debian Linux based
   (including Ubuntu), then you need to set this in php.ini as garbage
   collection happens outside of eZ Publish execution as well.
#. Session gc scripts / cronjobs in eZ Publish has no effect when you
   use PHP based handler.
   You should instead change your php.ini settings to make sure they are
   cleared regular:
   `http://php.net/manual/en/session.configuration.php <http://php.net/manual/en/session.configuration.php>`__
#. On Debian based Linux distroes (including Ubuntu) there is a out of
   the box cronjob (/etc/cron.d/php5) which uses a script to determine
   ``session.gc_maxlifetime`` (/usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime).
   This script only looks for \ ``session.gc_maxlifetime``
   in /etc/php5/\*/php.ini, so make sure you have placed your value
   there.

Session configuration in Symfony
--------------------------------

See session configuration for Symfony on `Configuring Sessions and Save
Handlers doc
page <http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/http_foundation/session_configuration.html>`__
is about native and custom save handlers, including garbage collection
and session lifetime informations.

 

 

 

 

`http://symfony.com/doc/current/cookbook/session/sessions\_directory.html <http://symfony.com/doc/current/cookbook/session/sessions_directory.html>`__

 

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:12
