#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Developer Cookbook <Developer-Cookbook_11403951.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish 5 Field Type
   Tutorial <eZ-Publish-5-Field-Type-Tutorial_19890704.html>`__
#. `The bundle <The-bundle_19890857.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : Structuring the bundle
================================================

Created and last modified by bertrand.dunogier@ez.no on Mar 10, 2014

At this point, we have an “anonymous” Symfony 2 bundle. 
--------------------------------------------------------

Let’s start by creating the structure for our FieldType. To make it
easier to move around the code, we will mimic to some extent the
structure that is used in the kernel. Native FieldTypes are located
inside ``ezpublish-kernel`` (in ``vendor/ezsystems``), in the
``eZ/Publish/Core/FieldType`` folder. Each FieldType has its own
subfolder: ``TextLine``, ``Email``, ``Url``\ … we will use a structure
quite close from this.

 From the tutorial repository, list the contents of the
``eZ/Publish/FieldType`` folder:

::

     eZ└── Publish   └── FieldType       └── Tweet           ├── Type.php           └── Value.php

We have the two base classes required by a FieldType: ``Type`` and
``Value``.

The Type class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| The Type contains the logic of the field type: validating data,
transforming from various formats, describing the validators…
| A type class must implement ``eZ\Publish\SPI\FieldType\FieldType``. It
may also extend the ``eZ\Publish\Core\FieldType\FieldType`` abstract
class.

The Value class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| The Value is used to represent an instance of our type within a
Content. Each Field will present its data using an instance of the
Type’s Value class.
| A value class must implement the ``eZ\Publish\SPI\FieldType\Value``
interface. It may also extend the ``eZ\Publish\Core\FieldType\Value``
abstract class.

| 

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:13
