#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes reference <FieldTypes-reference_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : The User FieldType
============================================

Created and last modified by petar.spanja@ez.no on May 23, 2014

 

This FieldType validates and stores information about a user.

Name

Internal name

Expected input

``User``

``ezuser``

ignored

**Table of contents:**

-  `Value Object API <#TheUserFieldType-ValueObjectAPI>`__

   -  `Available password hash
      types <#TheUserFieldType-Availablepasswordhashtypes>`__

User FieldType is read-only

Icon

In eZ Publish 5.x User FieldType is read-only. A dedicated API for
handling users is available, for more details see
``eZ\Publish\API\Repository\UserService``.

Value Object API
----------------

Property

Type

Description

Example

``hasStoredLogin``

``boolean``

Denotes if user has stored login.

``true``

``contentId``

``int|string``

Id of the Content corresponding to the user.

``42``

``login``

``string``

Username.

``john``

``email``

``string``

Users' email address.

``john@smith.com``

``passwordHash``

``string``

Hash of the user's password.

``1234567890abcdef``

``passwordHashType``

``mixed``

Algorithm user for generating password hash as a
``PASSWORD_HASH_* ``\ constant defined in
``eZ\Publish\Core\Repository\Values\User\User`` class.

::

    User::PASSWORD_HASH_MD5_USER

``maxLogin``

``int``

Maximal number of concurrent logins.

``1000``

Available password hash types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Constant

Description

``eZ\Publish\Core\Repository\Values\User\User::PASSWORD_HASH_MD5_PASSWORD``

MD5 hash of the password, not recommended.

``eZ\Publish\Core\Repository\Values\User\User::PASSWORD_HASH_MD5_USER``

MD5 hash of the password and username.

``eZ\Publish\Core\Repository\Values\User\User::PASSWORD_HASH_MD5_SITE``

MD5 hash of the password, username and site name.

``eZ\Publish\Core\Repository\Values\User\User::PASSWORD_HASH_PLAINTEXT``

Passwords are stored in plaintext, should not be used for real sites.

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:13
