#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes reference <FieldTypes-reference_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : The TextBlock FieldType
=================================================

Created and last modified by petar.spanja@ez.no on May 23, 2014

This FieldType represents a block of unformatted text.

Name

Internal name

Expected input type

``TextBlock``

``eztext``

``string``

**Table of contents:**

-  `Description <#TheTextBlockFieldType-Description>`__
-  `Input expectations <#TheTextBlockFieldType-Inputexpectations>`__
-  `Value object <#TheTextBlockFieldType-Valueobject>`__

   -  `Properties <#TheTextBlockFieldType-Properties>`__
   -  `String
      representation <#TheTextBlockFieldType-Stringrepresentation>`__
   -  `Constructor <#TheTextBlockFieldType-Constructor>`__

-  `Validation <#TheTextBlockFieldType-Validation>`__
-  `Settings <#TheTextBlockFieldType-Settings>`__

Description
-----------

--------------

The FieldType handles a block of multiple lines of unformatted text. It
is capable of handling up to 16,777,216 characters.

Input expectations
------------------

--------------

Type

Example

``string``

::

    "This is a block of unformatted text"

Value object
------------

--------------

Properties
~~~~~~~~~~

The Value class of this field type contains the following properties:

Property

Type

Description

``$text``

``string``

This property will be used for the text content.

String representation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A TextBlock's string representation is the the $text property's value,
as a string.

Constructor
~~~~~~~~~~~

The constructor for this value object will initialize a new Value object
with the value provided. It accepts a string as argument and will import
it to the \ ``$text`` attribute.

Validation
----------

--------------

This FieldType does not perform any special validation of the input
value.

Settings
--------

--------------

Settings contain only one option:

Name

Type

Default value

Description

``textRows``

``integer``

``10``

Number of rows for the editing control in the administration interface.

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:13
