#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes reference <FieldTypes-reference_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : The Url FieldType
===========================================

Created by ricardo.correia@ez.no, last modified by petar.spanja@ez.no on
May 23, 2014

This field type represents a hyperlink. It is formed by the combination
of a link and the respective text.

Name

Internal name

Expected input

``Url``

``ezurl``

``string``

**Table of contents:**

-  `Description <#TheUrlFieldType-Description>`__
-  `Input expectations <#TheUrlFieldType-Inputexpectations>`__
-  `Value object <#TheUrlFieldType-Valueobject>`__

   -  `Properties <#TheUrlFieldType-Properties>`__
   -  `Constructor <#TheUrlFieldType-Constructor>`__

-  `Validation <#TheUrlFieldType-Validation>`__
-  `Settings <#TheUrlFieldType-Settings>`__

Description
-----------

--------------

This FieldType makes possible to store and retrieve an url. It is formed
by the combination of a link and the respective text.

Input expectations
------------------

--------------

Type

Example

``string``

::

    "http://www.ez.no", "eZ Systems"

Value object
------------

--------------

Properties
~~~~~~~~~~

The Value class of this field type contains the following properties:

Property

Type

Description

``$link``

``string``

This property will be used to store the link provided to the value of
this FieldType.

``$text``

``string``

This property will be used to store the the text to represent the stored
link provided to the value of this FieldType.

**Value object content example**

.. code:: theme:

    $url->link = "http://www.ez.no";
    $url->text = "eZ Systems";

Constructor
~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``Url``\ ``\Value`` constructor will initialize a new Value object
with the value provided. It expects two comma-separated strings,
corresponding to the link and text.

**Constructor example**

.. code:: theme:

    // Instantiates an Url Value object
    $UrlValue = new Url\Value( "http://www.ez.no", "eZ Systems" );

Validation
----------

--------------

This FieldType does not perform validation.

Settings
--------

--------------

This FieldType does not have settings.

 

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:13
