#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes reference <FieldTypes-reference_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : The MapLocation FieldType
===================================================

Created by ricardo.correia@ez.no, last modified by petar.spanja@ez.no on
May 23, 2014

This field type represents a geographical location.

Name

Internal name

Expected input

``MapLocation``

``ezgmaplocation``

``mixed``

**Table of contents:**

-  `Description <#TheMapLocationFieldType-Description>`__
-  `Input expectations <#TheMapLocationFieldType-Inputexpectations>`__
-  `Value object <#TheMapLocationFieldType-Valueobject>`__

   -  `Properties <#TheMapLocationFieldType-Properties>`__
   -  `Constructor <#TheMapLocationFieldType-Constructor>`__

-  `Parameters accepted by ez\_render\_field Twig
   function <#TheMapLocationFieldType-Parametersacceptedbyez_render_fieldTwigfunction>`__

Description
-----------

--------------

This FieldType makes possible to store and retrieve a geographical
location.

As input it expects two float values, latitude, longitude, and a string
value in third place, corresponding to the name or address of the
location.

Input expectations
------------------

--------------

Type

Example

``array``

::

    array( 'latitude' => 59.928732, 'longitude' => 10.777888, 'address' => "eZ Systems Norge" )

Value object
------------

--------------

Properties
~~~~~~~~~~

The Value class of this field type contains the following properties:

Property

Type

Description

``$latitude ``

``float``

This property will store the latitude value of the map location
reference.

::

    $longitude

``float``

This property will store the longitude value of the map location
reference.

``$address``

``string``

This property will store the address of map location.

Constructor
~~~~~~~~~~~

| The **``MapLocation``**\ **``\Value``** constructor will initialize a
new Value object with the values provided. Two floats and a string are
expected.

**Constructor example**

.. code:: theme:

    // Instantiates a MapLocation Value object
    $MapLocationValue = new MapLocation\Value( 59.928732, 10.777888, "eZ Systems Norge" );

Parameters accepted by ez\_render\_field Twig function
------------------------------------------------------

--------------

The template called by `the **ez\_render\_field()** Twig
function <ez_render_field_12779554.html>`__ while rendering a Map
Location field accepts the following the parameters:

Parameter

Type

Default

Description

``mapType``

``string``

``"ROADMAP"``

`One of the GMap type of
map <https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/maptypes#BasicMapTypes>`__

``showMap``

``boolean``

``true``

Whether to show a Google Map

``showInfo``

``booolean``

``true``

Whether to show a latitude, longitude and the address outside of the map

``zoom``

``integer``

``13``

The initial zoom level on the map

``draggable``

``boolean``

``true``

| Whether to enable draggable map

``width``

``string|false``

``"500px"``

The width of the rendered map with its unit (ie "500px" or "50em"), set
to false to not set any width style inline.

``height``

``string|false``

``"200px"``

The height of the rendered map with its unit (ie "200px" or "20em"), set
to false to not set any height style inline.

Example:

.. code:: theme:

    {{ ez_render_field(content, 'location', {'parameters': {'width': '100%', 'height': '330px', 'showMap': true, 'showInfo': false}}) }}

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:13
