#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes reference <FieldTypes-reference_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : The EmailAddress FieldType
====================================================

Created by ricardo.correia@ez.no, last modified by petar.spanja@ez.no on
May 23, 2014

This field type represents an email address, in the form of a string.

Name

Internal name

Expected input type

``EmailAddress``

``ezemail``

``string``

**Table of contents:**

-  `Description <#TheEmailAddressFieldType-Description>`__
-  `Value object <#TheEmailAddressFieldType-Valueobject>`__

   -  `Properties <#TheEmailAddressFieldType-Properties>`__
   -  `Constructor <#TheEmailAddressFieldType-Constructor>`__
   -  `String
      representation <#TheEmailAddressFieldType-Stringrepresentation>`__
   -  `Hash format <#TheEmailAddressFieldType-Hashformat>`__

-  `Validation <#TheEmailAddressFieldType-Validation>`__
-  `Settings <#TheEmailAddressFieldType-Settings>`__

Description
-----------

--------------

The EmailAddress FieldType stores an email address, which is provided as
a string.

Value object
------------

--------------

Properties
~~~~~~~~~~

The **``Value``** class of this field type contains the following
properties:

Property

Type

Description

``$email``

``string``

This property will be used for the input string provided as email
address.

**Value object content example**

.. code:: theme:

    use eZ\Publish\Core\FieldType\EmailAddress\Type;

    // Instantiates an EmailAddress Value object with default value (empty string)
    $emailaddressValue = new Type\Value();

    // Email definition
    $emailaddressValue->email = "someuser@example.com";

Constructor
~~~~~~~~~~~

The **``EmailAddress``**\ **``\Value``** constructor will initialize a
new Value object with the value provided. It accepts a string as input.

**Constructor example**

.. code:: theme:

    use eZ\Publish\Core\FieldType\EmailAddress\Type;
     
    // Instantiates an EmailAddress Value object
    $emailaddressValue = new Type\Value( "someuser@example.com" );

String representation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

String representation of FieldType's Value object is the email address
contained in it.

Example:

    ``someuser@example.com``

Hash format
~~~~~~~~~~~

Hash value for this FieldType's Value is simply the email address as a
string.

Example:

    ``someuser@example.com``

Validation
----------

--------------

| This \ ``FieldType``  uses
the \ **``EmailAddressValidator``** validator as resource, which will
test the string supplied as input against a pattern, to make sure that a
valid email address has been provided.
| If the validations fail a \ **``ValidationError``**  is thrown,
specifying the error message.

Settings
--------

--------------

This FieldType does not support settings.

 

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:13
