#. `eZ Publish Platform 5.x <index.html>`__
#. `eZ Publish Platform
   Documentation <eZ-Publish-Platform-Documentation_1114149.html>`__
#. `Reference <Reference_10158191.html>`__
#. `FieldTypes reference <FieldTypes-reference_10158198.html>`__

eZ Publish Platform 5.x : The Float FieldType
=============================================

Created by ricardo.correia@ez.no, last modified by petar.spanja@ez.no on
May 23, 2014

This field type represents a float value.

Name

Internal name

Expected input

``Float``

``ezfloat``

``float``

**Table of contents:**

-  `Description <#TheFloatFieldType-Description>`__
-  `Input expectations  <#TheFloatFieldType-Inputexpectations>`__
-  `Value object <#TheFloatFieldType-Valueobject>`__

   -  `Properties <#TheFloatFieldType-Properties>`__
   -  `Constructor <#TheFloatFieldType-Constructor>`__

-  `Validation <#TheFloatFieldType-Validation>`__
-  `Settings <#TheFloatFieldType-Settings>`__

Description
-----------

--------------

This FieldType stores numeric values which will be provided as floats.

Input expectations 
-------------------

--------------

The FieldType expects a number as input. Both decimal and integer
numbers are accepted.

Type

Example

``float``

``194079.572``

``int``

``144``

Value object
------------

--------------

Properties
~~~~~~~~~~

The Value class of this field type contains the following properties:

Property

Type

Description

``$value``

``float``

This property will be used to store the value provided as a float.

**Value object content example**

.. code:: theme:

    use eZ\Publish\Core\FieldType\Float\Type;

    // Instantiates a Float Value object
    $floatValue = new Type\Value();

    $float->value = 284.773

Constructor
~~~~~~~~~~~

The \ ``Float``\ ``\Value`` constructor will initialize a new Value
object with the value provided. It expects a numeric value with or
without decimals.

**Constructor example**

.. code:: theme:

    use eZ\Publish\Core\FieldType\Float\Type;

    // Instantiates a Float Value object
    $floatValue = new Type\Value( 284.773 );

Validation
----------

--------------

This FieldType supports ``FloatValueValidator``, defining maximal and
minimal float value:

Name

Type

Default value

Description

``minFloatValue``

``float``

``false``

This setting defines the minimum value this FieldType will allow as
input.

``maxFloatValue``

``float``

``false``

This setting defines the maximum value this FieldType will allow as
input.

**Validator configuration example in PHP**

.. code:: theme:

    use eZ\Publish\Core\FieldType\Float\Type;
      
    $contentTypeService = $repository->getContentTypeService();
    $floatFieldCreateStruct = $contentTypeService->newFieldDefinitionCreateStruct( "float", "ezfloat" );
     
    // Accept only numbers between 0.1 and 203.99
    $floatFieldCreateStruct->validatorConfiguration = array(
        "FileSizeValidator" => array(  
            "minFloatValue" => 0.1,
            "maxFloatValue" => 203.99
        )
    );

Settings
--------

--------------

This FieldType does not support settings.

 

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 03, 2015 15:13
